I am given the address 2018shell3.picoctf.com 5221 to netcat. I am also given two files, one named passwd and another
named shadow. The title of the challenge refers to a tool called John The Ripper which is a password cracker. In the
hints I am also given a hint that if you're not careful these kind of problems can really "rockyou", which is a
reference to the rockyou.txt file. This is a popular wordlist/dictionary designed for cracking passwords.

When I netcat to the provided address, I am presented with a login that require a username and password. In order to
find these credentials I have to use the files given to me in the challenge.

The first file is a passwd. The passwd file is a human-readable text file which stores information of user account. Each
field is separated with a : . When we cat the passwd file we get the following content:

    root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash

root : username#

x : encrypted password

0 : user id

0 : group id

root : GECOS field that is generally used to record information about the account or its user(s) such as their real name
       and phone number.

/bin/bash : denotes the full path of the default shell that executes commands (by user) and displays the results.


From the above information we can gather that root will be the login name for the user. Now we must find the password.

The shadow file password and account expiration information for users. It contains the following content:

root:$6$LcvKHioa$67O1HA8Ti.KHeNbD4rE79ZMl1RbiCw4V7eM.r6AURp2wGnapUpXC.VdVB4WGoS2J5eVKP/1MFeMmXIdveJeOS0:17695:0:99999:7:::

root : username

$6$ : the encryption used is SHA-512

L->0 : your actual hashed password

17695 : days since password was changed

0 : The minimum number of days required between password changes

99999 : The maximum number of days the password is valid

7 : The number of days before password is to expire that user is warned that his/her password must be changed

In order to get the password we must first decrypt it which is why we are given the hint to use john the ripper password
cracking tool. However, since it is encrypted using SHA-512 it could take some time for your cpu to run through all the
possibilities. To speed this up we will use the password list rockyou.txt which can be found using the locate command
and copied using the cp command to your current directory.

Unfortunately I could not figure out how to get John The Ripper to work on the command line and so used the GUI instead.
Simply open up the GUI and select your shadow file. Then in options select the wordlist tab and choose the rockyou.txt
file you copied and unzipped in the directory you were working in.

This is the flag i got when I logged in: picoCTF{J0hn_1$_R1pp3d_289677b5}



